Last updated on January 23, 2025Azure Role-Based Access Control (RBAC)



Bookmarks
Concepts
Roles
Best Practices
Validate Your KnowledgeAzur e Ro le-Based A ccess
Control Ch eat Sh eet
A role-based access control service to manage
user’s access to Azure resources including what
they can do with those resources and what areas
they can access.
It is an authorization system based on Azure
Resource Manager, which provides fine-grained
access management of Azure resources.
Con cepts
A role assignment is composed of security
principal, role definition, and scope.
Security Principal – an object representing
a user, group, service principal, and
managed identity that requests access to
Azure resources.
Role Definition – a list of permissions that
can be performed, such as read, write and
delete.
Scope – set of resources to which access
applies.Search... 
🚀 Extended! 25% OFF
All Practice Exams &
Video Courses, $2.99
eBooks, Savings on
PlayCloud and
CodeQuest!
Learn AWS with our
PlayCloud Hands-On
Labs
🧑‍💻 50% OFF –
CodeQuest Coding
Labs
Home Courses and eBooks Intro to Cloud Computing AWS Cheat Sheets O the r C he at S he e ts
Exam Study Guides Blog Career Hub TD Portal LoginEnds indays hrs mins secsENROLL NOW
🚀 Extended! 25% OFF All Practice Exams & Video Courses, $2.99 eBooks, Savings on PlayCloud and CodeQuest!06 1337 3312/5/25, 5:22 PM Azure RBAC Cheat Sheet
https://tutorialsdojo.com/azure-role-based-access-control-rbac/ 1/9
Attaching a role definition to a user, group, service
principal, and managed identity to grant access to
a particular scope is called role assignment.
You can attach multiple role assignments since
RBAC is an additive model.
Azure RBAC supports both allow and deny
assignments.
Roles
Classic subscription administrator roles have full
access to an Azure subscription.
Account Administrator
You can only have 1 Account
Administrator per Azure account.
This role is the billing owner of the
Azure subscription.
It can manage subscriptions and
billings in the account.
Create and cancel subscriptions.
Service Administrator
For this role, you can only have 1
Service Administrator per Azure
subscription.
For new subscriptions, the Account
Administrator is also the Service
Administrator. This role has full access
to the Azure portal.
It can assign users with a Co-
Administrator role.
Co-Administrator
You can only create 200 Co-
Administrator per Azure subscription.
This role has the same privileges as
the Service Administrator, but it can’t
change the association of
subscriptions to Azure directories.
$2.99 AWS and Azure
Exam Study Guide
eBooks
New AWS Generative
AI Developer
Professional Course
AIP-C01
Learn GCP By Doing!
Try Our GCP
PlayCloud
Learn Azure with our
Azure PlayCloud
Ends indays hrs mins secsENROLL NOW
🚀 Extended! 25% OFF All Practice Exams & Video Courses, $2.99 eBooks, Savings on PlayCloud and CodeQuest!06 1337 3312/5/25, 5:22 PM Azure RBAC Cheat Sheet
https://tutorialsdojo.com/azure-role-based-access-control-rbac/ 2/9
A user with this role can only assign a
Co-Administrator role to other users.
Azure Roles – Azure RBAC has over 70 built-in
roles. The following are the four fundamental
Azure roles:
Owner 
Full access to all Azure resources.
Delegate access to other users.
Contributor
Create and manage all types of
resources in Azure.
The role can create a new tenant in
Microsoft Entra ID.
It cannot grant access to other users.
Reader
A user with this role can only view
Azure resources.
User Access Administrator
It has permissions to manage user
access to all types of resources.
Microsoft Entra Roles – Provide access to manage
Microsoft Entra resources in a directory such as
create users, assign administrative roles to others,
manage licenses, reset passwords, and manage
domains.
Global Administrator
This role can manage access to all the
administrative features in Microsoft
Entra ID.
It can assign administrator roles to the
users in your organization.
Reset the password of users and
administrators in the account.
User Administrator
Create and manage different types of
users and groups in Azure.
Manage support tickets and monitor
service health.
This role can only change the
passwords of users andFREE AI and AWS
Digital Courses
FREE AWS, Azure, GCP
Practice Test
Samplers
Subscribe to our
YouTube Channel
Ends indays hrs mins secsENROLL NOW
🚀 Extended! 25% OFF All Practice Exams & Video Courses, $2.99 eBooks, Savings on PlayCloud and CodeQuest!06 1337 3312/5/25, 5:22 PM Azure RBAC Cheat Sheet
https://tutorialsdojo.com/azure-role-based-access-control-rbac/ 3/9
administrators.
Billing Administrator
Make purchases in Azure.
The role can also monitor service
health.
Manage subscriptions and support
tickets.
Azure RolesMicrosoft Entra Roles
Manage access to
Azure resources.Manage access to
Microsoft Entra
resources.
It supports custom
roles.It supports custom roles.
The scope can be
specified at multiple
levels (management
group, subscription,
resource group,
resource).The scope is only at the
tenant level.
Role information can
be accessed through
Azure Portal, CLI,
PowerShell, Resource
Manager templates,
and REST APIs.Role information can be
accessed through
Microsoft Entra admin
center, Microsoft 365
Admin Center, Microsoft
Graph, and Microsoft
Graph PowerShell.
Best Pr actices
Use Azure RBAC to segregate duties within your
team and only grant the access your users need.Ends indays hrs mins secsENROLL NOW
🚀 Extended! 25% OFF All Practice Exams & Video Courses, $2.99 eBooks, Savings on PlayCloud and CodeQuest!06 1337 3312/5/25, 5:22 PM Azure RBAC Cheat Sheet
https://tutorialsdojo.com/azure-role-based-access-control-rbac/ 4/9
Limit the number of subscription owners (max of
3) to reduce the potential for breach by a
compromised owner.
You can use Microsoft Entra PIM to protect
privileged accounts from malicious cyber-attacks.
Valida te Your Kn owledge
Question 1
Question Type: Single choice
Your company has an Azure subscription named
ManilaSubscription  that contains multiple virtual
machines.
The subscription has a user named
ManilaUser01  which has the following roles:
Backup Reader
Storage Blob Data Contributor
DevTest Labs User
You need to ensure that ManilaUser01  can assign a
Reader role to all the users in the subscription.
What role should you assign?
1. Assign the User Access Administrator role.
2. Assign the Security Reader role.
3. Assign the Virtual Machine Contributor role.
4. Assign the Security Admin role.
For more Azure practice exam questions with detailed
explanations, check out the Tutorials Dojo Portal:
Show me the answer!Ends indays hrs mins secsENROLL NOW
🚀 Extended! 25% OFF All Practice Exams & Video Courses, $2.99 eBooks, Savings on PlayCloud and CodeQuest!06 1337 3312/5/25, 5:22 PM Azure RBAC Cheat Sheet
https://tutorialsdojo.com/azure-role-based-access-control-rbac/ 5/9
Azur e RBA C Refer ence:
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/role-based-
access-control/overview
Written b y: Jon Bonso
Jon Bonso is the co-founder of Tutorials
Dojo, an EdTech startup and an AWS
Digital Training Partner that provides
high-quality educational materials in the
cloud computing space. He graduated
from Mapúa Institute of Technology in
2007 with a bachelor's degree in
Information Technology. Jon holds 10
AWS Certifications and is also an active
AWS Community Builder since 2020.
AWS, Azure, and GCP Certifications are consistently
among the top-paying IT certifications in the world,
considering that most companies have now shifted
to the cloud. Earn over $150,000 per year with an
AWS, Azure, or GCP certification!
Follow us on LinkedIn, YouTube, Facebook, or join
our Slack study group. More importantly, answer
as many practice exams as you can to help
increase your chances of passing your certification
exams on your first try!
View Our AWS, Azure, and GCP Exam
Reviewers
Check out our FREE coursesEnds indays hrs mins secsENROLL NOW
🚀 Extended! 25% OFF All Practice Exams & Video Courses, $2.99 eBooks, Savings on PlayCloud and CodeQuest!06 1337 3312/5/25, 5:22 PM Azure RBAC Cheat Sheet
https://tutorialsdojo.com/azure-role-based-access-control-rbac/ 6/9