Last updated on November 17, 2025Azure App Service







Bookmar ks
App Services Types
Deployment
Monitoring
Security
VNet Integration
Hybrid Connections
Pricing
Validate Your KnowledgeAzur e App Ser vice Ch eat
Sheet
A fully managed platform (PaaS) for building,
deploying, and scaling your web apps.
Different types of App Services: Web Apps, Web
Apps for Containers, and API Apps
Automatically patches and maintains the OS and
language frameworks.
App Service can scale up or out manually or
automatically.
App Service supports the following languages:
.NET(.NET 10 Preview available)
.NET Core
Java
Ruby
Node.js (Node.js 22, 24 LTS now available)
PHP
Python (Python 3.14 now available)
Ubuntu-powered runtimes (leaner, faster)
Search... 
🚀 Extended! 25% OFF
All Practice Exams &
Video Courses, $2.99
eBooks, Savings on
PlayCloud and
CodeQuest!
Learn AWS with our
PlayCloud Hands-On
Labs
🧑‍💻 50% OFF –
CodeQuest Coding
Labs
Home Courses and eBooks Intro to Cloud Computing AWS Cheat Sheets O the r C he at S he e ts
Exam Study Guides Blog Career Hub TD Portal LoginEnds indays hrs mins secsENROLL NOW
🚀 Extended! 25% OFF All Practice Exams & Video Courses, $2.99 eBooks, Savings on PlayCloud and CodeQuest!06 1340 2312/5/25, 5:19 PM Azure App Service Cheat Sheet
https://tutorialsdojo.com/azure-app-service/ 1/12
An App Service plan is a collection of compute
resources needed for a web app to run.
Each App Service plan consists of a region,
number & size of virtual machines and pricing
tier.
App Service plan pricing tier: 
Shared Compute – Free and Shared are
the two base tiers. These tiers allocate CPU
quotas to every app running on the shared
resources, but the resources cannot scale-
out.
Dedicated Compute – It is composed of
Basic, Standard, Premium, and
PremiumV2 tiers. As the tier gets higher,
you will have more VMs to scale-out.
Isolated – A dedicated virtual machine that
provides maximum scale-out capabilities.
App Ser vices T ypes
Web Apps
Website and online applications hosted on
Azure’s managed platform.
Build and deploy mission-critical web
applications that scale with your business.
It supports auto-scaling and load balancing
for resilience and high availability.
Web Apps for Containers
Deploy and run containerized applications in
Azure.
$2.99 AWS and Azure
Exam Study Guide
eBooks
New AWS Generative
AI Developer
Professional Course
AIP-C01
Learn GCP By Doing!
Try Our GCP
PlayCloud
Learn Azure with our
Azure PlayCloud
Ends indays hrs mins secsENROLL NOW
🚀 Extended! 25% OFF All Practice Exams & Video Courses, $2.99 eBooks, Savings on PlayCloud and CodeQuest!06 1340 2312/5/25, 5:19 PM Azure App Service Cheat Sheet
https://tutorialsdojo.com/azure-app-service/ 2/12
All dependencies are shipped inside the
container.
API Apps
Expose and connect your backend data.
Connect other applications
programmatically.
Sidecar Extensions
Run additional containers alongside your
main application container.
Common use cases: Redis caching,
monitoring agents, AI inference helpers.
Supports containers for Redis, Datadoq,
Small Language Models (SLMs).
Replacement for Docker Compose feature
(retiring March 31, 2027).
Available through GitHub Actions and Azure
Pipelines.
WebJobs on Linux
Now generally available for both Windows
and Linux.
Run background tasks alongside web
applications.
AI/ML Features
Run Small Language Models (SLMs) as
sidecar extensions.
BitNet support – run large language models
on CPU only.
Microsoft Agent Framework for long-running
AI agents.
LangChain application deployment support.
Deployment
Deployment components in App Service:
Deployment Source – it is where the
application code is stored.
Build Pipeline – reads your code and takes
the application in a running state
Deployment Mechanism – enables you to
put your application in the /wwwrootFREE AI and AWS
Digital Courses
FREE AWS, Azure, GCP
Practice Test
Samplers
Subscribe to our
YouTube Channel
Ends indays hrs mins secsENROLL NOW
🚀 Extended! 25% OFF All Practice Exams & Video Courses, $2.99 eBooks, Savings on PlayCloud and CodeQuest!06 1340 2312/5/25, 5:19 PM Azure App Service Cheat Sheet
https://tutorialsdojo.com/azure-app-service/ 3/12
directory. It also supports Kudu endpoints,
FTP, and WebDeploy.
Deployment Center lets you choose the location
of your code, as well as build and deploy to the
cloud. It also has built-in continuous delivery for
containers.
When creating an App Service plan, there are
runtime stacks that will only run on Windows or
Linux but not on both operating systems. For
example, ASP.NET (Windows), Ruby (Linux), and
Java (Windows & LDeploymentinux).
Swap app content and configuration elements
with deployment slots.
The deployment slots allow you to create a
staging slot for your application.
When you perform the swap operation, the
following settings are swapped: General
settings, App settings, Connection strings,
Handler mappings, Public certificates, and
WebJobs content.
App Service supports the continuous deployment
of code and containers.
You can use local cache and deployment slots to
prevent downtime.
App Service diagnostics willhelp you in
troubleshooting your application.
App Service supports the continuous deployment
of code and containers.
Performance improvements include Node.js
deployment up to 8x faster and enhanced build
performance behind proxies.
You can use local cache and deployment slots to
prevent downtime.
Monitoring
Diagnostics logging helps you access the
information logged by Azure.
Application logging 
The generated log messages by your
application. Each message has theEnds indays hrs mins secsENROLL NOW
🚀 Extended! 25% OFF All Practice Exams & Video Courses, $2.99 eBooks, Savings on PlayCloud and CodeQuest!06 1340 2312/5/25, 5:19 PM Azure App Service Cheat Sheet
https://tutorialsdojo.com/azure-app-service/ 4/12
following level and categories:
Disabled: None
Error: Error, Critical
Warning: Warning, Error, Critical
Information: Info, Warning, Error,
Critical
Verbose: Trace, Debug, Info,
Warning, Error, Critical
You can also specify the disk quota
(MB) and retention period (days) for
the application logs.
The logs can be found on the App
Service file system or Azure Storage
blobs.
Web server logging
This log message contains an HTTP
method, resource URI, client IP, client
port, user agent, and response code.
You can set the retention period (days)
for the web server logs.
The logs are stored in Azure Storage
blobs or App Service file system.
Detailed Error Messages
A copy of the .htm error page. The
page contains the information on why
the server returns an error code (HTTP
code 400 or greater).
The logs are stored in the App Service
file system.
Failed request tracing
Detailed information on failed
requests. The information you can find
here helps you improve the site
performance and isolate a specific
HTTP error.
For each failed request, one folder is
generated which contains the XML log
file and XSL stylesheet.
The logs can be found on the App
Service file system.Ends indays hrs mins secsENROLL NOW
🚀 Extended! 25% OFF All Practice Exams & Video Courses, $2.99 eBooks, Savings on PlayCloud and CodeQuest!06 1340 2312/5/25, 5:19 PM Azure App Service Cheat Sheet
https://tutorialsdojo.com/azure-app-service/ 5/12
Deployment logging
This log is created when you publish
content to your app.
You can also use this log to determine
why the deployment failed. For
example, if you use a custom
deployment script and it fails, you can
determine why the script is failing
through deployment logs.
Like Detailed Error Messages and
Failed request tracing, the logs are also
stored in the App Service file system
only.
Secur ity
App Service protocols: HTTPS, TLS 1.1/1.2 and
FTPS
The default domain name is using HTTPs. You can
also secure your custom domain using an SSL/TLS
certificate.
Service endpoints allow you to restrict access
from a virtual network.
The first IP restriction rule has an explicit Deny all
rule with a priority of 2147483647.
Service-to-service authentication:
Service Identity – you can use the identity of
the app to access the remote resource.
On-behalf-of (OBO) – allows you to access a
remote service using a delegated sign-in.
Enterprise Application Platform (EAP):
BYOL (Bring Your Own License) support for
JBoss EAP.
Improved routine maintenance notifications.
Networking Troubleshooter in preview.
VNet In tegration
It allows your app to access resources in your
virtual network.
Regional VNet Integration Ends indays hrs mins secsENROLL NOW
🚀 Extended! 25% OFF All Practice Exams & Video Courses, $2.99 eBooks, Savings on PlayCloud and CodeQuest!06 1340 2312/5/25, 5:19 PM Azure App Service Cheat Sheet
https://tutorialsdojo.com/azure-app-service/ 6/12
You need to have a dedicated subnet
to the services that you integrate with.
Block outbound traffic using network
security groups.
Route table allows you to send
outbound traffic.
Gateway-required VNet Integration 
Allows access to resources in the
target virtual network.
Sync network allows you to sync
certificates and network information.
You can also add routes for outbound
traffic.
Hybr id Conn ections
Uses host:port combination.
It provides network access to your application
using a TCP endpoint.
Supports access to multi-networks from a single
app.
Host your hybrid connection endpoint using a
relay agent or Hybrid Connection Manager
(HCM).
You can run multiple HCMs on a separate
machine to achieve high availability.
Azur e App Ser vice Pr icing
You are charged on a per-second basis in the App
Service plan.
You are charged for the applications while they
are in a stopped state.
You are charged for data egress when using VNet
Integration.
You are charged for each listener in a Hybrid
Connection
Valida te Your Kn owledge
Question 1Ends indays hrs mins secsENROLL NOW
🚀 Extended! 25% OFF All Practice Exams & Video Courses, $2.99 eBooks, Savings on PlayCloud and CodeQuest!06 1340 2312/5/25, 5:19 PM Azure App Service Cheat Sheet
https://tutorialsdojo.com/azure-app-service/ 7/12
Question Type: Single choice
You created a web app named tdwebapp-prod  using
Azure App Service.
Several users are complaining that they received HTTP
500 errors whenever they try to connect to tdwebapp-
prod.
You must grant the developers real-time access to the
application in order to view the HTTP method, resource
URI, client IP, client port, user agent, and response code
of the requests.
What should you do?
1. Enable the Web Server Logging feature.
2. Create a security playbook.
3. Enable the Application Logging feature.
4. Create resource health alerts.
For more Azure practice exam questions with detailed
explanations, check out the Tutorials Dojo Portal:
Azur e App Ser vice Ch eat
Sheet Resour ces:
https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/app-service/
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/app-
service/overview
Written b y: Jon BonsoShow me the answer!Ends indays hrs mins secsENROLL NOW
🚀 Extended! 25% OFF All Practice Exams & Video Courses, $2.99 eBooks, Savings on PlayCloud and CodeQuest!06 1340 2312/5/25, 5:19 PM Azure App Service Cheat Sheet
https://tutorialsdojo.com/azure-app-service/ 8/12