Last updated on February 20, 2024Microsoft Entra ID



Bookmar ks
Features
Concepts
Monitoring
Microsoft Entra
Directory SecurityMicr osoft En tra ID Ch eat
Sheet
An identity and access management service that
helps you access internal and external resources.
Microsoft Entra licenses: Free, Premium P1,
Premium P2 and Pay as you go
Free – user and group management in
your on-premises directory
Premium P1 – allows access to both
on-premises and cloud resources.
Premium P2 – provides an additional
feature called Microsoft Entra Identity
Protection.
Pay as you go – offers a feature called
Azure AD B2C.
Features
You can use Microsoft Entra Authentication for
a self-service password reset, MFA, custom
banned password list, and smart lockout.
Allows you to manage external identities using
Azure AD B2B.Search... 
🚀 Extended! 25% OFF
All Practice Exams &
Video Courses, $2.99
eBooks, Savings on
PlayCloud and
CodeQuest!
Learn AWS with our
PlayCloud Hands-On
Labs
🧑‍💻 50% OFF –
CodeQuest Coding
Labs
Home Courses and eBooks Intro to Cloud Computing AWS Cheat Sheets O the r C he at S he e ts
Exam Study Guides Blog Career Hub TD Portal LoginEnds indays hrs mins secsENROLL NOW
🚀 Extended! 25% OFF All Practice Exams & Video Courses, $2.99 eBooks, Savings on PlayCloud and CodeQuest!06 1332 1212/5/25, 5:27 PM Microsoft Entra ID - Tutorials Dojo
https://tutorialsdojo.com/microsoft-entra-id/ 1/11
Azure AD B2C is a business-to-customer identity
as a service that allows you to control how your
users sign up, sign in, and manage their profiles
when using your applications.
Azure AD B2C provides you control on how your
users sign up, sign in, and manage their profiles
when using your applications.
You can manage access in your cloud apps with
conditional access.
With Microsoft Entra admin center, it allows you
to manage and configure device identities.
If you need to manage domain services such as
domain join, group policy, and authentication, you
can use  Microsoft Entra Domain Services.
Identity Governance ensures that only
authorized people have the right access to specific
resources.
Supports hybrid identity to access resources in
the cloud or on-premises.
It has a feature called Microsoft Entra Permissions
Management, which is a Cloud Infrastructure
entitlement management (CIEM) capability. The
Microsoft Entra Permissions Management allows
you to have comprehensive visibility and control
over the permissions for any identity or any
resource in your cloud service provider, which can
be Azure, AWS, GCP, and others.
Offers an identifier called Microsoft Entra
Workload ID which is a workload identity that you
assign to a software workload such as your web
application, API service, script, or container. Its
primary purpose is to authenticate and access
other services and resources in your Azure
workload.
Use Microsoft Entra Connect to accomplish your
hybrid identity goals:
$2.99 AWS and Azure
Exam Study Guide
eBooks
New AWS Generative
AI Developer
Professional Course
AIP-C01
Learn GCP By Doing!
Try Our GCP
PlayCloud
Learn Azure with our
Azure PlayCloud
Ends indays hrs mins secsENROLL NOW
🚀 Extended! 25% OFF All Practice Exams & Video Courses, $2.99 eBooks, Savings on PlayCloud and CodeQuest!06 1332 1212/5/25, 5:27 PM Microsoft Entra ID - Tutorials Dojo
https://tutorialsdojo.com/microsoft-entra-id/ 2/11
A sign-in method that uses password
hash synchronization.
Pass-through authentication allows
users to use the same password on-
premises and in the cloud.
Enable federation integration to sign in
to Microsoft Entra-based services
without having to enter their
passwords again.
Synchronization between your on-
premises environment and Microsoft
Entra.
Health Monitoring with Microsoft Entra
Connect Health.
Con cepts
Users
You can create a new user in your
organization or a guest user.
By enabling Multi-Factor
Authentication, you provide additional
security by requiring the user, a
second form of authentication. The
additional forms that can be used with
Microsoft Entra MFA are:
Microsoft Authenticator app
OATH hardware token
SMS
Voice call
You can also perform the following
bulk operations: 
Bulk create
Bulk invite 
Bulk delete 
Bulk restore
Download users
Self-service password reset enables
users to manage their passwords from
any device, at any time, and from any
location.FREE AI and AWS
Digital Courses
FREE AWS, Azure, GCP
Practice Test
Samplers
Subscribe to our
YouTube Channel
Ends indays hrs mins secsENROLL NOW
🚀 Extended! 25% OFF All Practice Exams & Video Courses, $2.99 eBooks, Savings on PlayCloud and CodeQuest!06 1332 1212/5/25, 5:27 PM Microsoft Entra ID - Tutorials Dojo
https://tutorialsdojo.com/microsoft-entra-id/ 3/11
In the device settings, you can change
the maximum number of devices per
user.
You can assign licenses to multiple
users or groups to allow them to use
the licensed Microsoft Entra services.
Licenses are applied per tenant, and
you can’t transfer them to other
tenants.
Groups
A collection of users, devices, groups,
and service principals.
You can easily manage access to your
resources by creating a Microsoft
Entra group.
A user can belong to multiple groups.
Groups do not have security
credentials.
Group Types:
Security – it contains users,
devices, groups, and service
principals as its members. The
users and service principals are
the owners of this group.
Microsoft 365 – it contains users
as its members. Both the users
and service principals can be
owners of this group.
Membership type:
Assigned – manually add users to
be members of the group.
Dynamic user – automatically
adds and removes members
using the dynamic membership
rules.
Dynamic device – automatically
adds and removes members
using the dynamic group rules.
With external identities, you can allow users
outside your organization to sign in using anEnds indays hrs mins secsENROLL NOW
🚀 Extended! 25% OFF All Practice Exams & Video Courses, $2.99 eBooks, Savings on PlayCloud and CodeQuest!06 1332 1212/5/25, 5:27 PM Microsoft Entra ID - Tutorials Dojo
https://tutorialsdojo.com/microsoft-entra-id/ 4/11
external identity provider like Facebook and
Google.
Administrative roles can be used to grant access
to Microsoft Entra and other Microsoft services.
There are two types of role definitions:
Built-in roles – it has a fixed set of
permissions.
Custom roles – you can select
permissions from a preset list. To
create a custom role, you need to have
a Microsoft Entra Premium P1 or P2
plan.
A Microsoft Entra resource that can be a container
for other Microsoft Entra resources is called an
administrative unit. It can only contain users
and groups.
Devices
Microsoft Entra registered devices
The devices registered are
personally owned devices (bring
your own device or mobile
device). These devices are signed
in with a personal Microsoft
account.
The supported operating
systems are Windows 10,
macOS, iOS, and Android.
A Mobile Device Management
(MDM) helps you enforce
configurations like storage must
be encrypted, password
complexity, and up-to-date
security software.
Key capabilities:
Single sign-on (SSO) to
cloud resources.
Conditional access when
enrolled in Microsoft
Intune or via App
protection policy.Ends indays hrs mins secsENROLL NOW
🚀 Extended! 25% OFF All Practice Exams & Video Courses, $2.99 eBooks, Savings on PlayCloud and CodeQuest!06 1332 1212/5/25, 5:27 PM Microsoft Entra ID - Tutorials Dojo
https://tutorialsdojo.com/microsoft-entra-id/ 5/11
Enables phone sign-in with
the Microsoft
Authenticator app.
Microsoft Entra joined devices
The devices and accounts are
owned by an organization. It only
exists in the cloud.
The supported operating
systems are Windows 10 devices
(except Windows 10 Home) and
Windows Server 2019 Virtual
Machines running in Azure.
Microsoft Entra join is primarily
used for organizations that do
not have an on-premises
Windows Server AD
infrastructure.
Key capabilities:
Microsoft Entra hybrid joined devices
The devices and Microsoft Entra
Domain Services account are
owned by an organization. It
exists both in the cloud and on-
premises resources.
The supported operating
systems are Windows 7, 8.1, 10,
Windows Server 2008/R2,
2012/R2, 2016, and 2019.
You can implement hybrid joined
devices if you have an existing
on-premises AD footprint and
you want to benefit from the
capabilities provided by
Microsoft Entra.
Key capabilities:
SSO to both cloud and on-
premises resources.
Conditional access through
Domain joins or throughEnds indays hrs mins secsENROLL NOW
🚀 Extended! 25% OFF All Practice Exams & Video Courses, $2.99 eBooks, Savings on PlayCloud and CodeQuest!06 1332 1212/5/25, 5:27 PM Microsoft Entra ID - Tutorials Dojo
https://tutorialsdojo.com/microsoft-entra-id/ 6/11
Microsoft Intune if co-
managed.
Self-service password reset
and Windows Hello PIN
reset on the lock screen.
Enterprise State Roaming
across Devices.
If you register your application to use Microsoft
Entra, the users in your organization can do the
following:
Get an identity for their application
that is recognized by Microsoft Entra.
Get secrets/keys that the application
will use for authentication.
Create a custom name and logo for
your application.
Apply Microsoft Entra authorization
(RBAC and oAuth)
Declare the necessary permissions for
the application.
With an application proxy, you can provide SSO
and remote access for web apps hosted on-
premises.
Monit oring
Monitor the security and usage patterns of your
environment with Microsoft Entra reports and
monitoring.
With Microsoft Entra Connect Health, you can
view alerts, monitor performance, and check
usage analytics of your on-premises Active
Directory and Microsoft Entra.
Micr osoft En tra Dir ectory
Secur ity
Detect potential vulnerabilities and resolve
suspicious actions with identity protection.Ends indays hrs mins secsENROLL NOW
🚀 Extended! 25% OFF All Practice Exams & Video Courses, $2.99 eBooks, Savings on PlayCloud and CodeQuest!06 1332 1212/5/25, 5:27 PM Microsoft Entra ID - Tutorials Dojo
https://tutorialsdojo.com/microsoft-entra-id/ 7/11
Microsoft Entra PIM helps you control the access
within your organization.
You can use security defaults to enable MFA in
your organization.
Enabling security defaults protects you from
common identity-related attacks.
You use block legacy authentication if a user is
using a legacy application.
Identity secure score helps you verify your
configurations if it’s aligned with Microsoft’s best
practices for security.
You can lockout intruders that try to guess your
users’ passwords or use brute-force methods in
Microsoft Entra using smart lockout.
Manage, control, and monitor access to significant
resources in your organization with Privileged
Identity Management (PIM).
Written b y: Ma tt Hidalg o
Matt is a Solutions Architect for a
managed services provider that
specializes in AWS and Azure. After
graduating from college with a degree in
Geology, he decided to switch careers
and self-taught himself with AWS and
Azure. Matt specializes in the migration
and deployment of workloads to AWS and
Azure with 3 years of experience.
AWS, Azure, and GCP Certifications are consistently
among the top-paying IT certifications in the world,
considering that most companies have now shifted
to the cloud. Earn over $150,000 per year with an
AWS, Azure, or GCP certification!Ends indays hrs mins secsENROLL NOW
🚀 Extended! 25% OFF All Practice Exams & Video Courses, $2.99 eBooks, Savings on PlayCloud and CodeQuest!06 1332 1212/5/25, 5:27 PM Microsoft Entra ID - Tutorials Dojo
https://tutorialsdojo.com/microsoft-entra-id/ 8/11
Our Comm unityDid y ou fin d our con tent helpful?
First Name Last Name (Optional)Subscr ibe to our Newsl etter
Sign up to our newsletter and take your
career to the next level with our cloud
computing resources.
Email Address:
reCAPTCHAI'm not a robot
Privacy - Terms
SubscribeFollow us on LinkedIn, YouTube, Facebook, or join
our Slack study group. More importantly, answer
as many practice exams as you can to help
increase your chances of passing your certification
exams on your first try!
View Our AWS, Azure, and GCP Exam
Reviewers
Check out our FREE coursesEnds indays hrs mins secsENROLL NOW
🚀 Extended! 25% OFF All Practice Exams & Video Courses, $2.99 eBooks, Savings on PlayCloud and CodeQuest!06 1332 1212/5/25, 5:27 PM Microsoft Entra ID - Tutorials Dojo
https://tutorialsdojo.com/microsoft-entra-id/ 9/11